#Codebook Overview
This codebook was generated as a companion for the TidyData.txt data file and serves to provide detailed information regarding the data set and its creation, including structure, variable descriptions, nad transformations resulting in the final data set.

#Source Files
Source files can be located in the UCI HAR Dataset folder, or directly from:

https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip

The README.txt file located in the above folder provides a comprehensive explanation of the original, unprocessed data. Included in the original data are the following data files:

* activity_labels.txt
* features.txt
* features_info.txt
* README.txt
* subject_test.txt
* X_test.txt
* y_test.txt
* subject_train_txt
* X_train_txt
* y_train.txt

For the purposes of this project, the Inertial Signals data were not used, as all required measurement values had already been transformed to create the Train and Test data files.

These data were collected from experiments carried out with a group of 30 subjects between the ages of 19 and 48 years. Each subject was observed performing six activities (walking, walking upstairs, walking downstairs, sitting, standing and laying) while wearing a Samsung Galaxy S II smartphone on their waists. Using the smartphone's embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, the researchers collected linear acceleration and angular velocity data for each observation. The subjects were partitioned into two groups, with 70% randomly assigned to the training data group and 30% randomly assigned to the testing data group. A much more thorough explanation the design methods and resulting data for this experiment can be found in the README.txt file.

#Analysis and Transformations
A brief explanation of each step in the transformation of the data into the resulting file (TidyData.txt) follows. The annotated run_analysis.R script can also be used to determine the rationale behind teh transformations conducted.

##Preliminary Tasks
This anaylsis was conducted using RStudio version 0.99.486 utilizing Mac OSX, 10.10.5 In addition, the following R packages were used to read and merge the data: downloader, data.table.
Preliminary Task steps included setting the working directory, defining the file path and creating a short-cut variable, accessing and reading in the data, and applying variable names.

##Merging the Data
First, the training and test data were merged to create comprehensive files for each group and then the were merged utilizing an rbind command.

##Extracting the Mean and Standard Deviation Data
Next, the resulting data set was subset using the names of the variable measures to include only those that measured the mean or standard deviation for each observation. This was achieved by establishing a logical vector and subsetting the data based upon the resulting TRUE / FALSE values.

##Applying Descriptive Activity Names to the Activity Variables
The addition of descriptive variable names for each activity (walking, walking upstairs, walking downstairs, sitting, standing and laying) was accomplished by merging twp datasets to create a column applying the descriptors for each activity number.

##Using Appropriately Descriptive Variable Names
A gsub function was written in order to 'clean up' the variable names and remove 'messy' characters, as well as more descriptive labels for the variable names.

##Creating an Independent, Tidy Data Set
The resulting data set was generated by using the aggregate and merge commands to summarize the data so that it includes only the average value for each variable for each activity and subject. 

#Variable Descriptions 
##Identifiers

Variable Name           |Variable Description
----------------|-------------------------------------------------------
ActivityId      |Numbered values for activity names
SubjectId       |Number assigned to subject as identifier, range (1 = 30)
ActivityName    |Character String identifying activity 

##Measurement Variables
###Time Variables
All "Time" variables are measured in seconds, using scientific notation where necessary. Each value in the TidyData set is an average of a subject's meaurements on each type of activity.

* "TimeBodyAccMean-X"                     
* "TimeBodyAccMean-Y"                    
* "TimeBodyAccMean-Z"                     
* "TimeBodyAcc-std-X"                    
* "TimeBodyAcc-std-Y"                     
* "TimeBodyAcc-std-Z"                    
* "TimeGravityAccMean-X"                  
* "TimeGravityAccMean-Y"                 
* "TimeGravityAccMean-Z"                  
* "TimeGravityAcc-std-X"                 
* "TimeGravityAcc-std-Y"                  
* "TimeGravityAcc-std-Z"                 
* "TimeBodyAccJerkMean-X"                 
* "TimeBodyAccJerkMean-Y"                
* "TimeBodyAccJerkMean-Z"                 
* "TimeBodyAccJerk-std-X"                
* "TimeBodyAccJerk-std-Y"                 
* "TimeBodyAccJerk-std-Z"                
* "TimeBodyGyroMean-X"                    
* "TimeBodyGyroMean-Y"                   
* "TimeBodyGyroMean-Z"                    
* "TimeBodyGyro-std-X"                   
* "TimeBodyGyro-std-Y"                    
* "TimeBodyGyro-std-Z"                   
* "TimeBodyGyroJerkMean-X"                
* "TimeBodyGyroJerkMean-Y"               
* "TimeBodyGyroJerkMean-Z"                
* "TimeBodyGyroJerk-std-X"               
* "TimeBodyGyroJerk-std-Y"                
* "TimeBodyGyroJerk-std-Z"               
* "TimeBodyAccMagnitudeMean"              
* "TimeBodyAccMagnitudeSD"               
* "TimeGravityAccMagnitudeMean"           
* "TimeGravityAccMagnitudeSD"            
* "TimeBodyAccJerkMagnitudeMean"          
* "TimeBodyAccJerkMagnitudeSD"           
* "TimeBodyGyroMagnitudeMean"             
* "TimeBodyGyroMagnitudeSD"              
* "TimeBodyGyroJerkMagnitudeMean"         
* "TimeBodyGyroJerkMagnitudeSD"  

###Frequency Variables
All frequency variables are signal measures, after having undergone a FFT after filtering out noise. Each value is an average of each subject's measurements on each type of activity.

* "FreqBodyAccMean-X"                     
* "FreqBodyAccMean-Y"                    
* "FreqBodyAccMean-Z"                     
* "FreqBodyAcc-std-X"                    
* "FreqBodyAcc-std-Y"                     
* "FreqBodyAcc-std-Z"                    
* "FreqBodyAccMeanFreq-X"                 
* "FreqBodyAccMeanFreq-Y"                
* "FreqBodyAccMeanFreq-Z"                 
* "FreqBodyAccJerkMean-X"                
* "FreqBodyAccJerkMean-Y"                 
* "FreqBodyAccJerkMean-Z"                
* "FreqBodyAccJerk-std-X"                 
* "FreqBodyAccJerk-std-Y"                
* "FreqBodyAccJerk-std-Z"                 
* "FreqBodyAccJerkMeanFreq-X"            
* "FreqBodyAccJerkMeanFreq-Y"             
* "FreqBodyAccJerkMeanFreq-Z"            
* "FreqBodyGyroMean-X"                    
* "FreqBodyGyroMean-Y"                   
* "FreqBodyGyroMean-Z"                    
* "FreqBodyGyro-std-X"                   
* "FreqBodyGyro-std-Y"                    
* "FreqBodyGyro-std-Z"                   
* "FreqBodyGyroMeanFreq-X"                
* "FreqBodyGyroMeanFreq-Y"               
* "FreqBodyGyroMeanFreq-Z"                
* "FreqBodyAccMagnitudeMean"             
* "FreqBodyAccMagnitudeSD"                
* "FreqBodyAccMagnitudeMeanFreq"         
* "FreqBodyBodyAccJerkMagnitudeMean"      
* "FreqBodyBodyAccJerkMagnitudeSD"       
* "FreqBodyBodyAccJerkMagnitudeMeanFreq"  
* "FreqBodyBodyGyroMagnitudeMean"        
* "FreqBodyBodyGyroMagnitudeSD"           
* "FreqBodyBodyGyroMagnitudeMeanFreq"    
* "FreqBodyBodyGyroJerkMagnitudeMean"     
* "FreqBodyBodyGyroJerkMagnitudeSD"      
* "FreqBodyBodyGyroJerkMagnitudeMeanFreq" 
